
Am I lithromantic?
Started by ~Emmie~ , Aug 26 2014 06:09 PM 


~Emmie~:
I recently came across the term lithromantic, and I think it describes me fairly well. I am romantically attracted to people, but I rarely feel the need to be in a relationship with them. There have been times were I'd tell someone that I have crush on them, but when they'd ask me if I wanted to date them I would say no, leaving them very confused. It's not that I minded them liking me back. It's just that I'm not super comfortable being in a romantic relationships with someone. So what do you think? Does it sound like I'm lithromantic? 


The Jolly Roger: 
The way you describe it is very similar to how I am and I identify as Lithro'. However only you know exactly how you feel, and what you're comfortable to ID as. *my unhelpful, helpful answer*


Sundance_ :
I'm not yet sure what I am, but I relate to this somewhat. For me, it's more like I'm romantically attracted to people, but I find myself rather emotionally unavailable, so I refuse romance when it comes down to it. Romantic relationships don't appeal much. I've tossed around the lith label, but I haven't settled on anything yet. 


captain1234:
I think I'm the same. Similarly to you, I don't get repulsed by reciprocation but the thought of being in a real romantic relationship just bugs me ... or scares me. Or creeps me out? I don't know how to explain it, but I know I don't like it. It gets really difficult because I don't really understand what's bothering me. For me, a good relationship would be much closer to a strong friendship that anything else, and rather than "date" we'd probably just cuddle and high-five each other. I do identify as lithromantic though, just to put some ease on myself. I think quite a few people have the same problem with identifying :) 


~Emmie~ :
( reply to captain1234 )
That's exactly how I feel! Thank you for sharing your thoughts :)


captain1234 :
( reply to ~Emmie~ )
Yaay! Glad I could help!! :D


kelico (Moderator):  
I'm lithromantic, and it sounds like you could be as well. : ) The definition of lithromantic really confused me at first when I came across it, but after reading other people's experiences and really just thinking about past situations in my life, I found that it completely fit. Everyone is different, so not all lithromantics have the same exact feelings. I am similar to you regarding relationships ... I've had crushes or feelings for other people, but I never wanted to initiate anything (be in a romantic relationship with them). I was happier viewing them from afar, just being their friend, or keeping the fantasy in my head (probably why I like fictional characters and celebs so much ... there's no way it'd be anything more than fantasy lol).  

However, I do have the discomfort factor in reciprocation. I'm not sure if I want to use the word repulsed, but in the times I've been told by a friend that they liked me more than a friend, well ... that got to me. It made me very uncomfortable. I shut down at that point. But again, everyone is different, and so how you react to things and how you feel is unique to you  : ) And if you feel lithromantic really fits, then you probably are! Best wishes! 


morgaine:
It's a bit frustrating but also interesting that someone else exclaiming they're lithromantic isn't necessarily a sign of mutual understanding ^^  I guess gray-romantics have that problem especially, as well ... ( // morgaine doesn't agree with others about lithromance ) 

I mean it's not like asexual and aromantic experiences are always 100% the same, either ... but there seem to be a lot less variables, usually. For me, it's always like, to identify with that person: Are they okay with reciprocation or averse? Are their crush experiences intense or more of a 'meh' phenomenon? Do they want romantic relationships in their lives or qp-type ( queerplatonic ) partnerships or none at all? Does their crush fade or fluctuate or something else? Does their attraction disappear in romantic relationships or are they indifferent?

And, for me, my attraction fades if I talk about it, if someone else knows, if I get into a state of mind where it just doesn't fit ... and a couple more, I guess. 

( meanwhile, what the definition others said about lithromantic is feeling discomfort of being in a romantic relationship of some ex-crush OR feeling good of speaking out to the crush but feeling discomfort of the crush's reciprocating liking back and want to initiate a romantic relationship ) 

Sorry for being so off-topic :o 
Lithromantic? I am less than lithromantic, because I just never (or too shy) speak out to the crush, if I did so it would make me discomfort. I don't tell my living crushes that they're my crushes. I like to keep it a secret and I love  the feeling of keeping this secret. 

It's just that it bothers me that we're such a tiny minority and on top of it it's very unlikely for me to find a lithromantic person who would actually feel how I do.



DiamondAce : 
What is more common in lithros - to tell or not to tell their living crushes that they're crushes?

I'd love to become an official crush of any number of lithros (preferably based in USA / FRA / ITA / ESP as I'm not going to visit these countries anyway), doing what they want and I can (within reasonable limits) and putting them on the ignore list by request, but obviously they have to acknowledge the crush in public first. 

(Well, I understand it's unlikely to happen because I'm not outstanding.)


Mysticus Insanus :
( reply to DiamondAce )
Mhh, I can just speak for myself ... but I definitely prefer it if they never find out about it at all. The two crushes where these living, real-world acquaintances still don't know today about how I felt for them back then are the two cases I'm most proud / least ashamed of. It's hard to pull that off if you're actually closely interacting with each other, though ... luckily, these two gals were just loose acquaintances. 

Having it (the situation) get to the point where the object (person) of the feelings has to put me on ignore on an internet site would already be more than enough to make me feel guilty for my feelings again ... so thanks for the offer, but I'll pass.  ;) 


DiamondAce :
Don't worry, I won't put you on ignore unless you request it yourself.

Myself, I also have lith tendencies - the objects of my malicious aesthetic attraction don't know they were such (or at least I've told no one). Yes, it's a bit dishonest to them, but I think those particular persons don't deserve my confession.


luxurieux:
In the past, I've wondered if I'm lithromantic as well. I'm much like you in that I find myself crushing really hard on some people (not so much lately), but then when/if they actually start to return those feelings and ask me out, I freak out and back off and say no. However, I don't think I'm truly lithromantic, because I do desire a relationship, I'm just terrified of the expectations. I think that's why I prefer starting relationships out over the internet as opposed to in real life. I long for the connection, I just can't deal with the pressure.

But I think I'm just demiromantic. Which would make sense. I don't really want to start a relationship with someone until getting to know them really well first, which usually isn't the way it works for most people and budding relationships, which is why I freak out and back off. But I also have this thing where I feel really unworthy of that kind of affection/attention. I have trouble understanding why someone would want to be with me, and I don't want to commit to something with someone and have them realize later that I'm actually not what they want. I just feel very strongly that I'm not good relationship material. I can barely understand why anyone would want to be friends with me, much less a romantic partner.

But I also find myself (as a girl) infuriatingly attracted to gay men, and it's so frustrating because I know my chances are 0.0001%, but at the same time I wonder if I like them because they're "safe." I don't know. After all, my first "relationship" (if you can call it that) was with a gay boy over the Internet.  <del> (He didn't know I was bio-female at first, which is a completely different story.) </del>


Vestal:
Same here. I found this definition of lithromantic:

> Lithromantic is a term to describe a person who experiences romantic love but does not want their feelings to be reciprocated. Lithromantic people may or may not be ok with romantic relationships. Some accept reciprocated platonic love, or even romantic love, but does not find it necessary in a relationship. The term "akoiromantic" has been suggested in place of "lithromantic", due to controversy of appropriativeness of lesbian culture. Another term is apromantic.

I can fall madly in love with certain men, but I do NOT need to have my feelings reciprocated.


FourEyedLemon:
I also identify as lithro, and I'd say you fall under the category.  Just be glad that you figured this out before you stuck yourself in a long term relationship though (I'm assuming based on your message and I apologize for that but I mean it if I'm right).


